docs/guide/examples.md, before:

# Examples

## Minimum Configuration

Vue GridMultiselect requires a minimum of three properties to be set in order for it to function properly. These properties are:

- __item-key__ (`String`) - Used internally by the Vue framework to correctly handle list updates. This key must be unique, and it's passed to the `:key` directive
- __item-label__ (`String` or `Array`) - Value to be displayed as text within the for each item in the list/s. Holds the property name/s of the item object containing the desired value
- __items__ (`Array`) - A list of objects to bound the component to

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect 
  :items="items" 
  item-key="id" 
  item-label="name" 
  v-model="selectedItems" 
/>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
	  selectedItems: null,
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas" },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome" }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```

Live Sample

<MinConfiguration />

## Custom Heading

By default, heading is set to `Grid Multiselect`, and this can be configured by setting the `title` property.

- __title__ (`String`) - Sets the component heading title

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect 
  :items="items" 
  item-key="id" 
  item-label="name" 
  v-model="selectedItems"
  title="Cities" 
/>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
	  selectedItems: null,
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas" },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome" }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```
Live Sample

<CustomHeading />

## Searching

By default, searching is enabled, and it doesn't require any property to be set.

- __searchable__ (`Boolean`) - Property responsible for controlling the search option

The internal search is based on the `item-label` property, meaning that the search term will be compared only to this value.

## Labeling and No Data Messages

### Labeling

Each label is customizable, both in items and the selected items list by using the following property:

- __item-label__ (`String` or `Array`) - Value to be displayed as text for each item in the list/s. Holds the property name/s of the item object containing the desired value

Pass an array of property names to handle both lists. The first element in the array is the item property name holding the items list label. The second element is the same but for the selected items list label. 

If `String` or `Array` with one element is passed, the same label is used for both lists.

Each of these can hold the property names combination, for example `name|state` combination.

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect 
  :items="items" 
  item-key="id" 
  :item-label="['name', 'state|name']" 
  v-model="selectedItems" 
  title="Cities" 
/>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
	  selectedItems: null,
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas", state: "USA" },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington", state: "USA" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome", state: "Italy" }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```

Live Sample

<Labeling />

### No Data Messages

Each _No Data_ message can be customized by using the property:

- __empty-message__ (`String`) - Holds the text to be displayed when nothing is selected. Defaults to `No Data`

Use delimiter `|` to handle both lists. The value before `|` is used for the items list and the value after is used for the selected items list.

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect 
  :items="items" 
  item-key="id" 
  :item-label="['name', 'state|name']" 
  empty-message="No Items|No Selection"
  v-model="selectedItems" 
  title="Cities" 
/>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
	  selectedItems: null,
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas", state: "USA" },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington", state: "USA" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome", state: "Italy" }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```

Live Sample

<NoDataMessage />

## Grouping

The items list can contain groups. To enable grouping you need to provide one additional prop which holds the item property with the desired group label value. The items collection is grouped by this value. This property must be present on each item in the collection.

- __group-by__ - Holds the item property name having the desired group label value

In the current version, the selected items are stored as a flat array.

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect 
  :items="items" 
  item-key="id" 
  item-label="name" 
  group-by="state"
  v-model="selectedItems" 
  title="Cities" 
/>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
      selectedItems: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" }
      ],
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas", state: "USA" },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington", state: "USA" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome", state: "Italy" }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```

Live Sample

<Grouping />

## Split View

The selected items view can be split into rows or columns. To split a view, you need to set the `splitBy` component property. The value should be the data source item property name to split the view by. Do note that, as with the grouping option, this property must be present on each item in the data source.

- __split-by__ - Holds the item property name having the desired label value.

By default, the view is split into columns within a single row. To split the view into rows, use `|` separator and specify the orientation, like this `state|row`.

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect 
  :items="items" 
  item-key="id" 
  item-label="name" 
  v-model="selectedItems" 
  title="Cities"
  split-by="state"
/>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
      selectedItems: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" }
      ],
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas", state: "USA" },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington", state: "USA" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome", state: "Italy" }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```

<SplitBy />

Split By Row

<SplitByRow />

## Disabled Items

To disable an item, add a property called `$isDisabled`. This is a reserved property and it should be a type of `boolean`.

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect
  :items="items"
  item-key="id"
  item-label="name"
  group-by="state"
  v-model="selectedItems"
  title="Cities"
/>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
      selectedItems: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" }
      ],
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas", state: "USA", $isDisabled: true },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington", state: "USA" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome", state: "Italy" }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```

<DisabledItems />

## Row Details

Selected items can be shown together with a certain amount of details. To achieve this, component prop `item-details` should be set.

- __item-details__ - Holds the item property name having the desired details label value

Use delimiter `|` to handle key combinations. For example, `name|state` combination will show `San Francisco USA` text in the details section. For further customization use `selectedItemDetails` slot.

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect
  :items="items"
  item-key="id"
  item-label="name"
  item-details="details"
  group-by="state"
  v-model="selectedItems"
  title="Cities"
/>
```

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example-rowdetails",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
      selectedItems: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA", details: "San Francisco is home to a little bit of everything." },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany", details: "Berlin is the capital and largest city of Germany by both area and population." }
      ],
      items: [
        { 
            id: 1, 
            name: "San Francisco", 
            state: "USA", 
            details: "San Francisco is home to a little bit of everything." },
        { 
            id: 2, 
            name: "Las Vegas",
            state: "USA", 
            details: "Las Vegas officially the City of Las Vegas and often known simply as Vegas, is the 28th-most populated city in the United States." },
        {
             id: 3, 
             name: "Washington",
             state: "USA", 
             details: "Washington officially the State of Washington, is a state in the Pacific Northwest region of the United States." 
        },
        { 
            id: 4,
            name: "Munich", 
            state: "Germany", 
            details: "Munich, Bavaria’s capital, is home to centuries-old buildings and numerous museums." 
        },
        { 
            id: 5, 
            name: "Berlin", 
            state: "Germany", 
            details: "Berlin is the capital and largest city of Germany by both area and population." 
        },
        { 
            id: 6, 
            name: "Rome", 
            state: "Italy", 
            details: "Rome is the capital city and a special comune of Italy. Rome also serves as the capital of the Lazio region." 
        }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```

<RowDetails />

## Menu Position

Side menu can be `dock` or `float` positioned. You can change this by setting the `menu-position` prop.

- __menu-position__ - Position where to display the side menu. Can be `float` or `dock`

If not specified, `dock` value is used.

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect
  :items="items"
  item-key="id"
  :item-label="['name', 'state|name']"
  v-model="selectedItems"
  title="Cities"
  menu-position="float"
/>
```

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example-floatingmenu",
  components: {
    GridMultiSelect
  },
  data() {
    return {
      selectedItems: null,
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas", state: "USA" },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington", state: "USA" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome", state: "Italy" }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```

<FloatingMenu />

## Slots

Further customization is possible with following slots:

- __item__ - Custom template for the item
- __selected-item__ - Custom template for the selected item
- __selected-item-details__ - Custom template for the selected item details section
- __items-footer__ - The additional section below the items section
- __selected-items-footer__ - The additional section below the selected items section

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect
  :items="items"
  item-key="id"
  item-label="name"
  group-by="state"
  v-model="selectedItems"
  title="Cities">
    <template v-slot:selected-item="{selectedItem}">
        The city {{selectedItem.name}} is located in {{selectedItem.state}}
    </template>
</GridMultiSelect>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
      selectedItems: null,
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas", state: "USA" },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington", state: "USA" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome", state: "Italy" }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```

Live Sample

<SelectedItemSlot />

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect
  :items="items"
  item-key="id"
  item-label="name"
  group-by="state"
  v-model="selectedItems"
  title="Cities"
>
  <template v-slot:selected-items-footer>
    <div class="buttons">
      <button @click="save">Save</button>
      <button @click="deselect">Cancel</button>
    </div>
  </template>
</GridMultiSelect>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
      selectedItems: [{ id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" }],
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas", state: "USA" },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington", state: "USA" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome", state: "Italy" }
      ]
    };
  },
  methods: {
    save() {
      alert(JSON.stringify(this.selectedItems));
    },
    deselect() {
      this.selectedItems = [];
    }
  }
};
```

CSS 

```css
<style scoped>
.buttons {
	text-align: right;
}
.buttons > button {
	background-color: #32a8c5;
	color: #fff;
	outline: none;
	padding: 0.5rem;
	border: 1px solid #e6eceb;
	border-radius: 4px;
	cursor: pointer;
}
</style>
```

Live Sample

<SelectedItemsFooterSlot />

## Vuex

By default, Vuex is supported. To make it work, replace `v-model` directive with `:value` binding and `@input` event. Simple as that.

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect
  :items="items" 
  item-key="id" 
  item-label="name" 
  group-by="state"
  :value="selectedItems"
  @input="updateSelectedItems"
  title="Cities" 
/>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';
import Vue from "vue";
import Vuex from "vuex";
import { mapActions, mapState } from "vuex";

Vue.use(Vuex);

const store = new Vuex.Store({
  state: {
	selectedItems: null,
	items: [
		{ id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
		{ id: 2, name: "Las Vegas", state: "USA" },
		{ id: 3, name: "Washington", state: "USA" },
		{ id: 4, name: "Munich", state: "Germany" },
		{ id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" },
		{ id: 6, name: "Rome", state: "Italy" }
	]
  },
  mutations: {
    updateSelectedItems(state, value) {
      state.selectedItems = value;
    }
  },
  actions: {
    updateSelectedItems({ commit }, value) {
      commit("updateSelectedItems", value);
    }
  }
});

export default {
  name: "example",
  store,
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  computed: mapState(["selectedItems", "items"]),
  methods: mapActions(["updateSelectedItems"])
};
```

Commit message:

added dynamic views empty message

docs/guide/examples.md, after:

# Examples

## Minimum Configuration

Vue GridMultiselect requires a minimum of three properties to be set in order for it to function properly. These properties are:

- __item-key__ (`String`) - Used internally by the Vue framework to correctly handle list updates. This key must be unique, and it's passed to the `:key` directive
- __item-label__ (`String` or `Array`) - Value to be displayed as text within the for each item in the list/s. Holds the property name/s of the item object containing the desired value
- __items__ (`Array`) - A list of objects to bound the component to

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect 
  :items="items" 
  item-key="id" 
  item-label="name" 
  v-model="selectedItems" 
/>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
	  selectedItems: null,
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas" },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome" }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```

Live Sample

<MinConfiguration />

## Custom Heading

By default, heading is set to `Grid Multiselect`, and this can be configured by setting the `title` property.

- __title__ (`String`) - Sets the component heading title

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect 
  :items="items" 
  item-key="id" 
  item-label="name" 
  v-model="selectedItems"
  title="Cities" 
/>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
	  selectedItems: null,
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas" },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome" }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```
Live Sample

<CustomHeading />

## Searching

By default, searching is enabled, and it doesn't require any property to be set.

- __searchable__ (`Boolean`) - Property responsible for controlling the search option

The internal search is based on the `item-label` property, meaning that the search term will be compared only to this value.

## Labeling and No Data Messages

### Labeling

Each label is customizable, both in items and the selected items list by using the following property:

- __item-label__ (`String` or `Array`) - Value to be displayed as text for each item in the list/s. Holds the property name/s of the item object containing the desired value

Pass an array of property names to handle both lists. The first element in the array is the item property name holding the items list label. The second element is the same but for the selected items list label. 

If `String` or `Array` with one element is passed, the same label is used for both lists.

Each of these can hold the property names combination, for example `name|state` combination.

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect 
  :items="items" 
  item-key="id" 
  :item-label="['name', 'state|name']" 
  v-model="selectedItems" 
  title="Cities" 
/>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
	  selectedItems: null,
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas", state: "USA" },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington", state: "USA" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome", state: "Italy" }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```

Live Sample

<Labeling />

### No Data Messages

Each _No Data_ message can be customized by using the property:

- __empty-message__ (`String`) - Holds the text to be displayed when nothing is selected. Defaults to `No Data`

Use delimiter `|` to handle both lists. The value before `|` is used for the items list and the value after is used for the selected items list. If view split is enabled, the additional third part after another `|` represents the text to be shown when no views are selected. A quick example looks something like this: `No Items|No Selection|No Views`

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect 
  :items="items" 
  item-key="id" 
  :item-label="['name', 'state|name']" 
  empty-message="No Items|No Selection"
  v-model="selectedItems" 
  title="Cities" 
/>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
	  selectedItems: null,
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas", state: "USA" },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington", state: "USA" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome", state: "Italy" }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```

Live Sample

<NoDataMessage />

## Grouping

The items list can contain groups. To enable grouping you need to provide one additional prop which holds the item property with the desired group label value. The items collection is grouped by this value. This property must be present on each item in the collection.

- __group-by__ - Holds the item property name having the desired group label value

In the current version, the selected items are stored as a flat array.

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect 
  :items="items" 
  item-key="id" 
  item-label="name" 
  group-by="state"
  v-model="selectedItems" 
  title="Cities" 
/>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
      selectedItems: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" }
      ],
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas", state: "USA" },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington", state: "USA" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome", state: "Italy" }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```

Live Sample

<Grouping />

## Split View

The selected items view can be split into rows or columns. To split a view, you need to set the `splitBy` component property. The value should be the data source item property name to split the view by. Do note that, as with the grouping option, this property must be present on each item in the data source.

- __split-by__ - Holds the item property name having the desired label value.

By default, the view is split into columns within a single row. To split the view into rows, use `|` separator and specify the orientation, like this `state|row`.

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect 
  :items="items" 
  item-key="id" 
  item-label="name" 
  v-model="selectedItems" 
  title="Cities"
  split-by="state"
/>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
      selectedItems: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" }
      ],
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas", state: "USA" },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington", state: "USA" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome", state: "Italy" }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```

<SplitBy />

Split By Row

<SplitByRow />

## Disabled Items

To disable an item, add a property called `$isDisabled`. This is a reserved property and it should be a type of `boolean`.

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect
  :items="items"
  item-key="id"
  item-label="name"
  group-by="state"
  v-model="selectedItems"
  title="Cities"
/>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
      selectedItems: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" }
      ],
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas", state: "USA", $isDisabled: true },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington", state: "USA" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome", state: "Italy" }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```

<DisabledItems />

## Row Details

Selected items can be shown together with a certain amount of details. To achieve this, component prop `item-details` should be set.

- __item-details__ - Holds the item property name having the desired details label value

Use delimiter `|` to handle key combinations. For example, `name|state` combination will show `San Francisco USA` text in the details section. For further customization use `selectedItemDetails` slot.

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect
  :items="items"
  item-key="id"
  item-label="name"
  item-details="details"
  group-by="state"
  v-model="selectedItems"
  title="Cities"
/>
```

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example-rowdetails",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
      selectedItems: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA", details: "San Francisco is home to a little bit of everything." },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany", details: "Berlin is the capital and largest city of Germany by both area and population." }
      ],
      items: [
        { 
            id: 1, 
            name: "San Francisco", 
            state: "USA", 
            details: "San Francisco is home to a little bit of everything." },
        { 
            id: 2, 
            name: "Las Vegas",
            state: "USA", 
            details: "Las Vegas officially the City of Las Vegas and often known simply as Vegas, is the 28th-most populated city in the United States." },
        {
             id: 3, 
             name: "Washington",
             state: "USA", 
             details: "Washington officially the State of Washington, is a state in the Pacific Northwest region of the United States." 
        },
        { 
            id: 4,
            name: "Munich", 
            state: "Germany", 
            details: "Munich, Bavaria’s capital, is home to centuries-old buildings and numerous museums." 
        },
        { 
            id: 5, 
            name: "Berlin", 
            state: "Germany", 
            details: "Berlin is the capital and largest city of Germany by both area and population." 
        },
        { 
            id: 6, 
            name: "Rome", 
            state: "Italy", 
            details: "Rome is the capital city and a special comune of Italy. Rome also serves as the capital of the Lazio region." 
        }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```

<RowDetails />

## Menu Position

Side menu can be `dock` or `float` positioned. You can change this by setting the `menu-position` prop.

- __menu-position__ - Position where to display the side menu. Can be `float` or `dock`

If not specified, `dock` value is used.

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect
  :items="items"
  item-key="id"
  :item-label="['name', 'state|name']"
  v-model="selectedItems"
  title="Cities"
  menu-position="float"
/>
```

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example-floatingmenu",
  components: {
    GridMultiSelect
  },
  data() {
    return {
      selectedItems: null,
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas", state: "USA" },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington", state: "USA" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome", state: "Italy" }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```

<FloatingMenu />

## Slots

Further customization is possible with following slots:

- __item__ - Custom template for the item
- __selected-item__ - Custom template for the selected item
- __selected-item-details__ - Custom template for the selected item details section
- __items-footer__ - The additional section below the items section
- __selected-items-footer__ - The additional section below the selected items section

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect
  :items="items"
  item-key="id"
  item-label="name"
  group-by="state"
  v-model="selectedItems"
  title="Cities">
    <template v-slot:selected-item="{selectedItem}">
        The city {{selectedItem.name}} is located in {{selectedItem.state}}
    </template>
</GridMultiSelect>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
      selectedItems: null,
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas", state: "USA" },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington", state: "USA" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome", state: "Italy" }
      ]
    };
  }
};
```

Live Sample

<SelectedItemSlot />

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect
  :items="items"
  item-key="id"
  item-label="name"
  group-by="state"
  v-model="selectedItems"
  title="Cities"
>
  <template v-slot:selected-items-footer>
    <div class="buttons">
      <button @click="save">Save</button>
      <button @click="deselect">Cancel</button>
    </div>
  </template>
</GridMultiSelect>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';

export default {
  name: "example",
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  data() {
    return {
      selectedItems: [{ id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" }],
      items: [
        { id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
        { id: 2, name: "Las Vegas", state: "USA" },
        { id: 3, name: "Washington", state: "USA" },
        { id: 4, name: "Munich", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" },
        { id: 6, name: "Rome", state: "Italy" }
      ]
    };
  },
  methods: {
    save() {
      alert(JSON.stringify(this.selectedItems));
    },
    deselect() {
      this.selectedItems = [];
    }
  }
};
```

CSS 

```css
<style scoped>
.buttons {
	text-align: right;
}
.buttons > button {
	background-color: #32a8c5;
	color: #fff;
	outline: none;
	padding: 0.5rem;
	border: 1px solid #e6eceb;
	border-radius: 4px;
	cursor: pointer;
}
</style>
```

Live Sample

<SelectedItemsFooterSlot />

## Vuex

By default, Vuex is supported. To make it work, replace `v-model` directive with `:value` binding and `@input` event. Simple as that.

HTML

```html
<GridMultiSelect
  :items="items" 
  item-key="id" 
  item-label="name" 
  group-by="state"
  :value="selectedItems"
  @input="updateSelectedItems"
  title="Cities" 
/>
```

JS

```js
import GridMultiSelect from 'vue-gridmultiselect';
import Vue from "vue";
import Vuex from "vuex";
import { mapActions, mapState } from "vuex";

Vue.use(Vuex);

const store = new Vuex.Store({
  state: {
	selectedItems: null,
	items: [
		{ id: 1, name: "San Francisco", state: "USA" },
		{ id: 2, name: "Las Vegas", state: "USA" },
		{ id: 3, name: "Washington", state: "USA" },
		{ id: 4, name: "Munich", state: "Germany" },
		{ id: 5, name: "Berlin", state: "Germany" },
		{ id: 6, name: "Rome", state: "Italy" }
	]
  },
  mutations: {
    updateSelectedItems(state, value) {
      state.selectedItems = value;
    }
  },
  actions: {
    updateSelectedItems({ commit }, value) {
      commit("updateSelectedItems", value);
    }
  }
});

export default {
  name: "example",
  store,
  components: { GridMultiSelect },
  computed: mapState(["selectedItems", "items"]),
  methods: mapActions(["updateSelectedItems"])
};
```
